tests/unit/README.md, before:

# Unit Tests

This directory contains unit tests for the ZVision detection system components.

## Test Files

- **test_roi_api.py**: Tests for the ROI configuration API endpoints

## Running the Tests

To run all unit tests:

```bash
# Run from project root
python -m unittest discover tests/unit
```

To run a specific test file:

```bash
# Run from project root
python -m unittest tests/unit/test_roi_api.py
```

## ROI API Tests

The `test_roi_api.py` file tests the following functionality:

- Setting ROI coordinates and entry direction
- Clearing ROI configuration
- Verifying ROI information is included in the status endpoint

These tests use mock objects to simulate dependencies, allowing for isolated testing of the API functionality without requiring a live camera or detection model.

## Test Coverage

The unit tests aim to verify:

1. Correct API response codes
2. Proper JSON response structures
3. Integration with the detection manager
4. Error handling for invalid inputs

## Dependencies

To run the unit tests, you need:

- Python unittest framework (built-in)
- Mock library for Python

Install with:

```bash
pip install mock
```

## Adding New Tests

When adding new tests:

1. Follow the existing pattern of test classes and methods
2. Use descriptive test method names (`test_feature_behavior_context`)
3. Include docstrings explaining the purpose of each test
4. Use assert methods from unittest for verification
5. Mock external dependencies when appropriate

Commit message:

Update documentation for analytics engine integration

tests/unit/README.md, after:

# Unit Tests

This directory contains unit tests for the ZVision detection system components.

## Test Files

- **test_roi_api.py**: Tests for the ROI configuration API endpoints
- **test_analytics_engine.py**: Tests for the analytics engine functionality

## Running the Tests

To run all unit tests:

```bash
# Run from project root
python -m unittest discover tests/unit
```

To run a specific test file:

```bash
# Run from project root
python -m unittest tests/unit/test_roi_api.py
python -m unittest tests/unit/test_analytics_engine.py
```

## ROI API Tests

The `test_roi_api.py` file tests the following functionality:

- Setting ROI coordinates and entry direction
- Clearing ROI configuration
- Verifying ROI information is included in the status endpoint

These tests use mock objects to simulate dependencies, allowing for isolated testing of the API functionality without requiring a live camera or detection model.

## Analytics Engine Tests

The `test_analytics_engine.py` file tests the following functionality:

- Camera entry/exit count aggregation 
- Time-series data generation for different time periods
- Camera-specific time-series filtering
- Heatmap data generation
- Integration with camera registry and database

These tests verify both the backend analytics calculations and the proper API response formatting, ensuring that the analytics system provides accurate and useful data for multi-camera deployments.

## Test Coverage

The unit tests aim to verify:

1. Correct API response codes
2. Proper JSON response structures
3. Integration with the detection manager and analytics engine
4. Error handling for invalid inputs
5. Data formatting and aggregation logic

## Dependencies

To run the unit tests, you need:

- Python unittest framework (built-in)
- Mock library for Python

Install with:

```bash
pip install mock
```

## Adding New Tests

When adding new tests:

1. Follow the existing pattern of test classes and methods
2. Use descriptive test method names (`test_feature_behavior_context`)
3. Include docstrings explaining the purpose of each test
4. Use assert methods from unittest for verification
5. Mock external dependencies when appropriate
